{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs24\lang9 1.Define Artificial intelligence(AI) and provide examples of its applications\par
A)\b0 AI ,or Artificial intelligence ,refers to the simulation of human intelligence proccesses by machines ,especially computer systems.This includes learning ,reasoning , and self correction .examples of AI applications include.\par
\b 1.NATURAL LANGUAGE PROCESSING(NLP):\b0 AI is used in chatbots,virtual assistants like siri or google assistant,and language transalation services like google translate.\par
\b 2.MACHINE LEARNING(ML):\b0 AI algorithms learn from data to make predictions or decisions. examples include recommendations systems on streaming platforms like netflix and spotify fraud detection in banking ,personalized advertising on social media.\par
\b 3.COMPUTER VISION:\b0 AI enables machine to interpret and understand visual information.Applications include facial recognition systems,autonomous vehchiles,and medical image analysis for diagnostics.\par
\b 4.ROBOTICS:\b0 AI is used in robots to perform tasks in environments unsuitable for humans ,such as manufacturing,logistics,and exploration.\par
\b 5.HEALTHCARE:\b0 AI assists in diagnosing diseases,designing treatment plans ,and analyzing medical images like x-rays and MRI'S.\par
\b 6.GAMING:\b0 AI used to create intelligence opponents in video games and to adapt gameplay to individual player prferences.\par
these are the few examples ; AI is being applied across various industries to automate tasks,improve efficiency,and make better decisions.\par
\par
\par
\b 2.DIFFIERENCIATE BETWEEN SUPERVISED AND UNSUPERVISED LEARNING TECHNIQUES IN ML.\par
\b0 A)\b  Supervised learning \b0 :the algorithm learns from labeled data ,where each training example is paired with a corresponding target label . the goal is to learn a mapping from input data to output labels ,such as class labels in classification tasks or numerical values in regression tasks .During training ,the algorithm adjusts its diffrence between its prediction and the true labels.Examples of supervised learning algorithms include linear regression,logistic regression,decision trees,support vector machines and neutral networks.\par
\b Unsupervised learning: \b0 unsupervised learning involves training algorithms on unlabled data,where the algorithm tries to learn the underlying structure or patterns within  the data without explicit guidance.The objective is typically to discover hidden patterns ,clusters,or representations in the data.unsupervised learning techniques include clustering algorithms like k-means clustering ,and density_based clustering ,as well as dimensionality reduction techniques like principal component analysis(PCA) and t-disturbed stochastic neighbour embedding(t-SNE).\par
\par
\b 3.WHAT IS PYTHON?DISCUSS ITS MAIN FEATURES AND ADVANTAGES.\par
A)\b0 python is a high-level ,interpreted programming language known for its simplicity and readability.it was created by guido van Rossum  and first released in 1991.python is widely used across various domains such as web development ,data science ,artificial intelligence ,science computing ,automation ,and more.\par
Main features of python:\par
1.\b SIMPLE AND READBLE SYNTAX:\b0 pythons's syntax is clear and easy to understand ,making it suitable for beginners and experinced devolpers alike.it emahasizes code readability ,which reduces the cost of program maintainance and development.\par
\fs28 2.\b interpreted and interactive: \b0 Python is an interpreted language ,meaning code is executed by line by line ,which allows for quick prototyping and testing .it also supports interactive mode,where code can be executed interactively in a REPL environment.\par
3.\b DYNAMIC TYPING AND STRONG TYPING:\b0 Pyhton is dynamically typed ,meaning variable types are inferred at runtime ,enhancing flexibility and ease of use.however ,it is also strongly typed,enforcing type safety during runtime.\par
\b 4.HIGH-LEVEL LANGUAGE:\b0 Python abstracts lows-level details,providing built in data structures and high-level operations,which simplifies coding.\par
\b 5.PORTABILITY:\b0 python is platform independent ,meaning code written in python can run on various operating systems such as windows ,macsos,and linux without modification.\par
6.\b EXTENSIVE STANDARD LIBRARY:\b0 it provides modules and packages for various tasks such as i/o,networking ,databases access,gui development ,and more.\par
\b ADVANTAGES OF PYTHON:\par
\b0 1.EASE OF LEARNING AND USE: python's simple syntax and readbility make it easy to learn,even for beginners with no prior programming experience .its high -level abstractions and extensive documentation further contribute to its ease to use.\par
2:VERSATILITY:Pyhton's is a versatile language that can be used for a wide range of applications ,from web development and scripting to computing and machine learning.\par
3:SCALABILITY:while python is often criticized for being slower than lower level languages like c and c++,it offers scalability through integration with other languages  and parellel processing libraries.additionally ,performance-critical sections of code can be optimized using techniques .\par
\par
\b 4.WHAT ARE THE ADVANTAGES OF USING PYTHON AS A PROGRAMMING LANGUAGE FOR AI AND ML?\par
A)\b0 using python for AI and ML comes with several advantages:\par
1.\b RICH ECOSYSTEM OF LIBRARIES:\b0 Python has a vast array of libraries and framework specially desingined fo ai and ml tasks,such as tensorflow,pytorch,scikit-learn,keras,and NLTK.these libraries provide pre -inbuilt modules and functions for common AI and ML tasks ,making development faster and easier.\par
2.\b EASE OF PROTOTYPING AND EXPERIMENTATION: \b0 python's simple and expensive syntax ,along with its interactive mode ,makes it deal for rapid prototyping and experimentation .developers can quickly impplement and test algorithms.\par
3.\b COMMUNITY SUPPORT AND RESOURCES\b0 : Python has a large and active community of developers working on ai and ml projects.this vibrant community provides a wealth of resources ,including tutorials,documentation,forums,and open-source projects.\par
4.\b INTEGRATION WITH OTHER TECHNOLOGIES\b0 :python seamlessly integrates with other tecnologies commonly used in ai and ml ,such as big data frameworks and scientific computing libraries.\par
5\b .SUPPORT FOR DEEP LEARNING\b0 :python has emerged as the de facto language for deep learning ,thanks to frameworks like tensorflow and pytorch.\par
\par
5.\b DISCUSS THE IMPORTANCE OF INDENTATION IN PYTHON CODE?\par
A)\b0 in python ,indentation plays a crucial role in defining the structure and readability of code .unlike many other programming languages that use braces or keywords to denote code blocks ,python uses indentation to indicate the beginning and end of blocks code.\par
1.\b READABLITY:\b0 indentation enhances the readability of python code by visually representing the structure of the code.it makes it easier for developers to understand the flow of control and the realtionship between .\par
2.\b STRUCTURE\b0 :indentation defines the structure of the code .in python ,indentation is used instead of braces or keywords like "end" to signify the beggining and end of code blocks.\par
3.\b DEBUGGING\b0 :indentation can also aid in debugging .when code blocks are properly indented,its easies to indentify where the block starts and ends .\par
4\b .PYTHONIC STYLE\b0 : following python's recommended indentation style(typically four white spaces)is a part of writing "pythonic code".\par
\par
6.\b DEFINE A VARIABLE IN PYTHON .PROVIDE EXAMPLES OF VALID VARIABLE NAMES.\par
A)\b0 IN python ,a variable is a name that refers to a value stored in memory .you can define a variable by assisning a value to it using  the equal sign ("=").variable names must adhere to certain rules and conventions.\par
rules of variable names in python:\par
1.Variable names must be start with a letter (a-z,A-Z) or an underscore(_).\par
2.the remaining characters in a variable name can be letters ,digits (0-9),or underscores.\par
3.variable names are case-sensitive .\par
4.variable names cannot be reserved words(keywords)like if,else,etc..\par
example:\par
x=5;\par
name = 'alice'\par
my_variable=10.5\par
total_count=10000\par
\par
\par
7.\b EXPLAIN THE DIFFRENCE BETWEEN A KEYWORD AND AN IDENTIFIER IN PYTHON?\par
A)\b0 IN Python ,keywords and identifiers are both important elements of the language ,but they serve different purposes:\par
1.\b KEYWORDS:\par
\b0 >keywords are reserved words that have special meaning and functionality in python.\par
>these words cannot be used as identifiers (variable names,function names,etc..) because they are already reserved for specific language features.\par
>examples of keywords in python include 'if','else','while'etc..,\par
2.\b IDENTIFIERS:\par
\b0 >identifiers are name given to entities like variable ,functions ,class ,modules,etc.., created by the programmer.\par
>they are user-defined and can be used to represent various elements within a python program.\par
>identifiers must follow some rules\par
.they can consist of letters ,digits,and underscores.\par
.they must start with a letter or an underscore.\par
.identifiers are case-sensitive\par
.they cannot be keywords \par
\b\par
8.LIST THE BASIC DATA TYPES AVIALABLE IN PYTHON?\par
1.INTEGER(int):\b0 represents whole numbers without any decimal point \par
ex:5,-10,10000.\par
2.\b FLOAT\b0 :represents numbers with a decimal point or numbers in exponential form using 'e'or,E,.ex:3.14,-0.0001.\par
3.\b STRING\b0  :(str) represents a sequence of characters enclosed within single(''),double(" "),triple (''' ''', """ """)quotes.ex:'hello'\par
4.\b BOOLEAN(bool):\b0 represents a boolean value ,either true or false ,used in logical operations and conditions.\par
5.\b LIST(list\b0 ):represents an ordered and mutable collection of items enclosed within square brackets [],separated by commas\par
EX:[1,2,3]\par
6\b .TUPLE(tuple):\b0 represents an  ordered and immutable collection of items enclosed within parenthesis (),separated by commas.\par
7.\b DICTIONARY(DICT)\b0 :represents a  collection of key-value pairs enclosed within curly braces\{\}.\par
8.\b SET(set\b0 ):represents an unordered and mutable collection of unique items enclosed within curly braces \{\},separated by commos .\par
\par
9.\b DESCRIBE THE SYNTAX FOR AN IF STATEMENT IN PYTHON\b0 ?\par
A) in python ,an if statement is used for conditional execution of code based on the evaulation of an expression .\par
if condition:\par
    #code block to execute if condition is true\par
    statement 1\par
    statement 2\par
10.\b EXPLAIN THE PURPOSE OF THE ELIF STATEMENT IN PYTHON\b0 ?\par
A)the 'elif' statement in python stands for else if.it allows you to check additional conditions after the initial 'if' statement .the purpose of 'elseif' is to provide an alternative condition to evaluate if the preceeding 'if' conditions is 'false'.\par
here's why 'elif' is useful:\par
1.\b MULTIPLE CONDITIONS\b0 : in situations where you need to evaluate  multiple conditions sequentially,'elif'allows you to specify additional conditions wihtout nesting multiple 'if'statements.\par
2.\b EXCLUSIVE CONDITIONS\b0 :'elif' helps to handle exclusives cases that are not covered by initial 'if' condition .if intial if condition is false then it executes the 'elif' condition.\par
3.\b EFFICIENCY\b0 :using 'elif' can make your code more efficient compared to using nested 'if' statements.\par
\par
\b\par
\fs24\par
\b0\par
\par
\b\par
}
 